# P3: Hi-fi Prototypes and Heuristic Evaluation

## Link to Demo System

[Axure share demo of Browser](http://ej7arb.axshare.com)

## Highlight Walkthrough

### Task 1: Adding a Bookmark

[](https://youtu.be/XlIFMui7a_8)
[YouTube Video](https://youtu.be/XlIFMui7a_8)
  
What you see happening in the video is a user trying to add a bookmark. You see the user first navigating to the bookmarks list wishing to go to amazon.ca but the icon is not there. So the user manually enters the amazon website into the URL bar which takes him to Amazon, then going back to the bookmarks menu and adding the bookmark. Finally, the user goes back to view the bookmarks and you can see the amazon icon there.

### Task 2: Changing the Homepage

[](https://youtu.be/pYlkLS5eSXU)
[YouTube Video](https://youtu.be/pYlkLS5eSXU)
  
In this task the user wishes to change what page the home icon in the main menu takes them to. The user first taps the home icon to show that it takes them to Home.com which is not the site they want as their homepage, so they navigate to their bookmarks list and tap on the YouTube icon to bring them to YouTube, which is the site they want as their homepage. They then navigate to the settings menu and tap the "set homepage" icon which sets their home page to the current page they are on. Finally the user navigates to another website (in this case amazon) and wants to return to their new homepage, so they go to the main menu and tap the home icon which takes them to YouTube, their newly set homepage.

### Task 3: Changing the Font Size

[](https://youtu.be/TYvAzYpzUd8)
[YouTube Video](https://youtu.be/TYvAzYpzUd8)
  
The user wishes to change the font size in the program so they go from the main menu into settings and then text options, which lets them choose from a variety of font sizes. The user selects a bigger font, which is evident when they return back to the settings menu. The user then decides that this font is too big so goes back into the text options to choose another smaller font size.

### Heuristic Severity Rating Scale
|Rating|Description|
|---|---|
|0|Not a problem|
|1|Cosmetic problem|
|2|Minor usuability problem|
|3|Major usability problem (important to fix)|
|4|Usability catastrophe (must fix)|

## Heuristic Evaluation Results
We chose to present our heuristic analysis in paragraph format since it was easier to explain the problems of each major heuristic violation.

We have chosen 4 major design problems for our system that need to be fixed in future iterations.  These include:

### Navigation bar for Tile Menu and browser causes confusion (Severity rating: 2)
When using the system the navigation bar has the same appearance in different contexts.  For example, when browsing websites the navigation bar looks identical to the navigation bar in the tile menus.  This can cause confusion to users because they may not know whether a back/forward button will work in the context of the browser or the tile menu.  This violates the consistency and standards heuristic.  We can fix this by adding different icons on the navigation bar to indicate their function in specific situations (ie. browsing or tile menu).  We rate this in severity as a 2, causing concern but ultimately showing a minor usability issue.  

### No confirmation prompts (Severity rating: 2)
If a user was to clear their history, add a bookmark, or set their homepage there is no prompt that asks the user whether or not they want to confirm their actions.  User control and freedom is violated as a user has no way to cancel their action if they mistakenly press a button.  We can easily fix this by adding a prompt that waits for the user to confirm or cancel their actions.  On a severity scale, we rate this as a 2.  

### Can't remove a bookmark (Severity rating: 3)
Right now, the system does not allow for a user to delete a bookmark.  This violates the user control and freedom heuristic, as it completely doesn't give any option for this action to be done.  A edit button can be added to the list bookmarks menu where a user can go and remove any bookmarks he or she wants.  In the edit button, a user can also reorder their list of bookmarks.  We have given this problem a severity of 3, indicating that a major piece of functionality is non-existent.

### URL Bar has no error checking (Severity rating: 3)
The system doesn't deal with invalid urls.  For example, if a user input "netflix.com" into the URL bar, our browser doesn't handle invalid cases (eg. spelling errors, wrong domains, etc).  At present if a wrong URL is typed in redirects the user to their homepage.  A fix for this would be to generate an error message upon execution of a invalid URL.  This is a 3 on a severity scale, since a user would have no feedback as to how to type a valid URL.

## Raw Heuristic Evaluation Notes

### Aaron's raw notes:
[PDF Link](https://janlothar.github.io/481-t01group01/P3%20Heuristic%20Analysis/Hueristic_Aaron.pdf)

### Jan's raw notes:
[Image Link Page 1, ](https://janlothar.github.io/481-t01group01/P3%20Heuristic%20Analysis/Jan_heuristicsPage1.jpg)
[Page 2](https://janlothar.github.io/481-t01group01/P3%20Heuristic%20Analysis/Jan_heuristicsPage2.jpg)

### Taylor's raw notes:
[PDF Link](https://janlothar.github.io/481-t01group01/P3%20Heuristic%20Analysis/Taylors%20P3%20Heuristic%20Analysis%20-%20Sheet1.pdf)

### Jordan's raw notes:
[PDF Link](https://janlothar.github.io/481-t01group01/P3%20Heuristic%20Analysis/p3-heuristic-jordan.pdf)
