# P4: Final Report and Presentation

## Executive Summary

Tile Browser is a specially designed visual web browser. It was designed for people with cerebral palsy, but also works well for those familiar with traditional browsers. The main feature is the Tile Menu Overlay, which displays an easily recognizable array of options using colored quadrants.

In this report, the design problem, user research, our design, and evaluation of the interface will be explained in more detail.

## Introduction

Currently, there is no specific web browser that accomodates people who deal with the challenges of cerebral palsy.  We felt this was a great opportunity to create a browser specifically for this user group.  To first find out what look this browser should have, and the features it implements we need to gather research about our target audience.  We have some initial assumptions that we feel might be a problem for our audience, but only through user research we can confirm this.  Next we will describe the design problem we face going into this project.  

## Design Problem

We designed the browser for people with cerebral palsy, and stakeholders also includes people like friends and families of people with cerebral palsy (who may share a device with them), and medical specialists (who may need to teach their patients how to use the browser).

Cerebral palsy is an umbrella term for disorders affecting a person’s ability to move, with common effects such as limited fine motor control, impaired eyesight and/or hearing. The problem with traditional browsers is that they are designed to be very information dense, making the text and targets small. For someone with limited fine motor control, finding and selecting these targets may be very difficult to do with precision.

Our solution addresses this by using large tiles for options so they are easy to find, and bright contrasting colors to differentiate each option visually. The colors also help with memorization; similar options will have a similar color scheme. For example, the bookmarks option has a deep orange color, and the submenus within the bookmarks (add bookmark, list bookmarks) also have an orange color.

## User Research and Findings

For our user research we used three different methods for gathering information on our user group.  Our methods were Observation, Think-Aloud, and Interviewing.  We felt observation was important to have as a method since it allowed our user to be in his own environment and we were able to see him browse through a conventional web browser.  As we observed his actions while navigating through the browser we asked him to tell us out loud not only what actions he was doing, but also why he was doing them.  We feel that observing his actions as well as his reasonings for why he performed those actions helped develop an idea of our user groups mental model.  Lastly, we interviewed our user to ask him what kind of features he liked in conventional browsers and which he did not.  We feel all of these methods really complemented each other and allowed us to gain a deep understanding of the features we should and shouldn't have in the development of our system.

## Design and Justification

We started off with a long wishlist of things we wanted our system to have, and started our initial prototype from that:

* Fast
* Feature-rich
* Aesthetically pleasing
* Customizable
* **Simple to use**
* **Clear interactions**
* **Quick to navigate**
* Efficient
* Usable outside of target user-base

From this wishlist we chose the three that were most important to use (shown in bold) and went back to our design prototype and changed aspects to fit with these newly prioritized aspects.


#### Simple Navigation
It’s hard for our target user-base to perform complex gestures such as swiping and double-tapping, So we wanted to avoid any navigation methods that use them wherever possible. As an example, our initial idea for the browser window was to drag the bar down to show menu, and drag back up to bring the browser window back. This was refined by adding a button that the user could tap instead, eliminating need to perform the complex gesture.

#### Clear Actions
The target user isn’t able to try out different actions on a page as quickly as a typical user, who would have no problem trying out multiple things on a page (e.g. Swiping icons to see if they have additional properties, Navigating back and forth between menu pages to see how things have changed). It became important that interactable elements are simple and clear in what they can do in order to discourage experimentation, which in our case could result in poor user experience.

#### Visibility (for Quick Navigation)
What would be a standard menu for a typical user might require a lot of ‘tracking’ from our user-base to find what they were looking for. So when it came to our system, less reading and more recognition became a big design philosophy when designing the interface.

## Heuristic Evaluation and Findings

Each team member in our group conducted their own heuristic evaluation of the system, and separately identified any violations they discovered. After this we combined our individual lists into a comprehensive list of all violations that we uncovered, we then fixed all of the easy bugs and violations that we could and assigned a severity rating to the ones we could not. We ended up with four of what we considered to be major problems that would need to be addressed going forward. 
Our main navigation bar is a constant companion throughout the user's browsing experience both in menus and while surfing the web. This can cause confusion to users because they may not know whether a back/forward button will work in the context of the browser or the tile menu. This violates the consistency and standards heuristic. We can fix this by adding different icons on the navigation bar to indicate their function in specific situations (ie. browsing or tile menu). We rate this in severity as a 2, causing concern but ultimately showing only a minor usability issue.

Many actions within our system such as clearing browsing history, adding a bookmark, or setting a new homepage, do not have proper prompts for users to confirm that they intended the selected action. User control and freedom is violated as a user has no way to cancel their action if they mistakenly press a button. We can easily fix this by adding a prompt that waits for the user to confirm or cancel their actions. On a severity scale, we rate this as a 2.
The system does not allow for a user to delete a bookmark. This violates the user control and freedom, as it completely omits any ability to perform this action. An edit button can be added to the list bookmarks menu that would allow a user to remove any bookmarks he or she wants, and also reorder their list of bookmarks. We rate this as a severity of 3, indicating that a major piece of functionality is non-existent.

The system doesn't deal with invalid urls. For example, if a user input "netflix.com" into the URL bar, our browser doesn't handle invalid cases (eg. spelling errors, wrong domains, etc). At present if an incorrect URL is typed in redirects the user to their homepage. A fix for this would be to generate an error message or link to an invalid url page upon execution of an invalid URL. This is a 3 on a severity scale, since a user would have no feedback as to how to type a valid URL.

## Recommendations for Next Iteration of Design

Moving forward into future iterations of the system there are several problems that would need to be addressed (see above), as well as more user research to be conducted with our hi-fi prototype, and new features and functionality we would like to add/improve.
First and foremost would be to address/fix all problems discovered during our heuristic evaluations. Each is rated by severity and already has a proposed solution for how it could be fixed. We would simply require the time to go from highest to lowest severity and fix/implement the solutions.
Now that we have a working hi-fi prototype we would like to conduct more user research. Using this new prototype we would propose another round of research wherein several more cerebral palsy patients could try to use our prototype and give invaluable feedback on the design we have so far.
We still think their are several features that would be good additions/revisions to add to our design. First would be the creation of a new navigation bar that intuitively shows which actions it can perform in its given context. But the features we would be most adamant about implementing would be more customizability and options to allow users to tailor the experience to their individual needs (menu layout, icons, colour schemes, shortcuts, etc). We think this is the most important new feature(s) to add as many cerebral palsy patients have differing needs and ranges of mobility. These additions will make our system even more usable and accessible to a wide range of users with diverse and individual problems.

## Conclusions

Throughout our entire project we have tried to integrate a simple design with a rather complex system, like a browser.  One thing we discovered is that tradeoffs are a necessary part of the development of this system.  Making things too simple takes away from functionality, and conversely making things too complex distances us from our intended target audience.  We feel we hit a good middle ground in the first iteration of our project.  We have developed a simple tile design that has all the major features one might expect from a conventional browser, but we have also added more options to allow for more functionality.  However, this iteration did not come without its problems which we were quick to identify in our heuristic analysis of our system.  In conclusion, we feel this system is a great prototype that can one day develop into something bigger and better to address the needs people with cerebral palsy have while using the Internet.



Taylor Stemp, Jordan Lee, Jan Warncke, & Aaron Fisher
